A few weeks ago, I remember watching a video by DJ Trev about building the foundation of a house. The foundation of a house is the most important element of the entire structure. It serves as the base upon which everything else is built, and provides stability and support for the entire building. Without a solid foundation, the entire structure is at risk of collapsing or becoming unstable.

The problem that we seem to be facing is that we are trying to build this foundation and find our identity on sinking sand. In the past couple weeks, every day seems to bring new challenges and obstacles to the ecosystem that pulls the ground out from under us. Our proximity to regulatory enforcement actions and collapsing financial institutions are earthquake-like events that we are having to endure.

It is during these times - when we are shaken to the core - I’ve been forced to reflect on who we are, what is our value proposition, and where we aspire to go. I’m reminded of Alex Forshaw’s January article about LUNC’s product-market fit. UST used to be Terra’s defining product, but faces massive financial and regulatory headwinds. Do we go down that path again? Over the past several months, I have been thinking about my role in all of this and would like to share my struggle embracing my/our identity and how to innovate in light of this.
The Cosmos Identity — Internet of Blockchains or Fat Protocol

At the macro level (Cosmos in general), I think we are struggling with an issue of identity. Cosmos is a decentralized network of independent, parallel blockchains, whose main goal was to create an ecosystem where different blockchains can communicate with each other efficiently, known as the “Internet of Blockchains.” It focuses on application-specific blockchains (also known as “app chains”) and their integration with the Cosmos and Tendermint ecosystem.

The idea behind app chains is to create specialized blockchains tailored to particular use cases or applications, rather than having one-size-fits-all blockchains like Ethereum. This allows for better scalability, security, and customization, as each app chain can be optimized for its specific purpose. Cosmos facilitates the creation of these app chains by providing tools like Inter-Blockchain Communication (IBC) protocol that enables communication and transfer of assets (and accounts!) between these app chains, enhancing the utility of the entire ecosystem.

However, thus far, the “fat protocol” thesis has played a dominant role. The fat protocol thesis envisions a single, comprehensive blockchain that supports all kinds of applications and use cases that drives demand for the native token and protocol. This idea is similar to early days of the internet when some believed that a single supercomputer was the best approach and everyone else would just open a remote terminal on that central machine. In fact, many of the blockchains in the Cosmos aspire to do similar things, and thus, there doesn’t seem to be much of a clear differentiator at the protocol level. The call for utility on LUNC similarly seems to bolster the drive for the fat protocol, where Terra Classic can support many different L2 applications on top of the L1 layer. I do not want to downplay the importance of this. Getting the chain upgraded with the latest cosmos and wasm support is absolutely critical to LUNC’s future; however, given that the concept of application-specific blockchains is a core principle in the Cosmos ecosystem, exploration of alternative approaches to the fat protocol are warranted.